The President:
Merry Christmas, everybody.
Michelle and I just wanted to
take a moment today to send
greetings from our
family to yours.
The First Lady:
This is one of our
favorite times of year.
And we're so fortunate to be
able to celebrate it together in
this wonderful home.
This is the "People's House."
So Barack and I try to open it
to as many people as we can,
especially during
the holiday season.
You know, his month, more than
100,000 Americans have passed
through these halls.
And the idea behind this
year's theme, "Simple Gifts,"
is that the greatest blessings
of all are the ones that don't
cost a thing -- the comfort of
spending time with loved ones,
the freedoms we
enjoy as Americans,
and the joy we feel upon
giving something of ourselves.
So in this time of family,
and friends, and good cheer,
let's also be sure to look
out for those who are less
fortunate, who've hit
a run of bad luck,
or who are hungry and
alone this holiday season.
The President:
Because this is the season when
we celebrate the simplest yet
most profound gift of all: the
birth of a child who devoted his
life to a message of peace,
love, and redemption.
A message that says
no matter who we are,
we are called to
love one another --
we are our brother's keeper,
we are our sister's keeper;
our separate stories in this big
and busy world are really one.
Today, we're also thinking of
those who can't be home for the
holidays -- especially all our
courageous countrymen serving overseas.
That's the message I delivered
when I visited our troops in
Afghanistan a few weeks ago --
that while you may be serving
far from home, every American
supports you and your families.
We are with you.
And I have no greater honor than
serving as your Commander-in-Chief.
Today's soldiers,
sailors, airmen, Marines,
and Coast Guardsmen make up the
finest fighting force in the
history of the world.
Just like their predecessors,
they do extraordinary things in
service to their country.
What makes that all the more
remarkable is that today's
military is an
all-volunteer force --
a force of mothers and
fathers, sons and daughters,
husbands and wives.
The First Lady:
That's right.
And as First Lady, I've had the
honor to meet members of our
military and their families on
bases and in communities all
across the country.
I've gotten to know husbands and
wives doing the parenting of two
while their spouse is
on another deployment;
children trying their best in
school but always wondering when
mom or dad is coming home;
patriots putting their lives on
hold to help with a
loved one's recovery;
or carry on the memory
of a fallen hero.
When our men and women in
uniform answer the call to
serve, their
families serve, too.
And they're proud
and glad to do it.
But as long as that service
keeps the rest of us safe,
their sacrifice should
also be our own.
Even heroes can use a hand,
especially during the holidays.
The President:
So we're encouraging Americans
to ask what you can do to
support our troops and their
families in this holiday season.
For some ideas on how to get
started, just visit serve.gov.
The First Lady:
You'll see that you don't need
to be an expert in military life
to give back to those
who give so much to us.
There are countless ways to
contribute by harnessing your
unique talents.
If you live near a base, you can
reach out through your local
school or your church.
If you don't, you can volunteer
with organizations that support
military families.
And anybody can send a care
package or pre-paid calling card
to the front lines, or give
what's sometimes the most
important gift of all:
simply saying "thank you."
The President:
America's brave servicemen and
women represent a small fraction
of our population.
But they -- and the families
who await their safe return --
carry far more than their
fair share of the burden.
They've done everything
they've been asked to do.
They've been everything
we've asked them to be.
And even as we speak, many are
fighting halfway around the
globe -- in hopes that someday,
our children and grandchildren
won't have to.
So let's all remind them this
holiday season that we're
thinking of them -- and that
America will forever be here for
them, just as they've
been there for us.
And on behalf of
Michelle, Malia, Sasha --
The First Lady:
And Bo.
The President:
And Bo -- have a
very Merry Christmas.
The First Lady:
And an even happier New Year.